Well, look at this. My very own blog. I wish this was the first one, but I fear I've lost count. And yet, here I am once again. 

However! This time, things are a little different: you see, dear reader, this blog is of my own creation. While it might not look like much – and I'll get to that in a moment – the entire interface (as well as a handy-dandy little backend) has been handcrafted by yours truly, almost in its entirety. I'm using Michel Fortin's exceptional PHP Markdown plugin for the editor so that I can do all kinds of fancy styling while still returning (hopefully) valid HTML. 

Other than that, everything you see here is a product of my design. I've lately been embarking on little projects here and there to fill in the gaps in my life, by my own hand. Redundant? Maybe. I like Jeff Atwood's bit about not reinventing the wheel, unless you want to learn more about wheels. Unfortunately, I don't have much to show for it at the moment save for this blog, but there are more things to come. 

To this end, this blog is a prime example of precisely what I feel a blog should be: a place where thoughts can be fleshed out in words, and little more. Forever a minimalist, the design and functionality are kept to the bare minimum: you will not find any widgets for facebook or twitter or any advertisements or a blogroll or a wishlist or anything else of the like. Comments might come at a later date; they might not. There's nothing vying for your attention. It's just you and – my broken thoughts and your overly gracious eyeballs – nothing more, nothing less. 

That is, should you indulge me. 

With any luck, this will serve as a place where I can put writings and musings on the things I'm interested in.

To that end, a bit of news on my end, a la Chris Coyier's 4th of July state of the union address, if only a little late. At the time of this writing, I will be starting a new job in the next coming weeks at Nothing Interactive in the lovely city of Bern. Having found what looks to be a suitable place for us to live, we will be moving there as soon as it is humanly possible. I could not be more excited. Despite its conversationally awkward name, Nothing looks like a genuinely wonderful little agency, brimming with knowledgeable folk and the very best of practices. They've even designed a robot for me! And Bern is an absolutely lovely city, replete with what I hope will be more culture and city life. Our new flat, while sporting a brand new ultra modern kitchen and bathroom, appears to have been built sometime in the 19th century, so there's that.

However, this new chapter is not entirely without tribulation: though I am admittedly looking forward to departing this sleepy, yet gorgeous little pinprick on the map, I will be leaving behind a bunch of absolutely wonderful people, the likes of which I will miss dearly. They have been an unhesitating analogue to family in this strange and foreign land, keeping me in good supply of friendship, knowledge, spirit, and spirits. I came here as an eager outsider; I leave here having all expectations vigorously redefined.

Well, this should do for a first post. Expect to see more things here in the future.

Thanks for reading.

Paid in full,

Mike