an open letter to komal rana

hi komal, mike fischer here. thanks for the three (!) emails you've sent me in the past week, two of which have been follow up emails. if I had actually initiated the conversation between the two of us, I would be flattered at your attention to punctuality. however, as I have not, and as your emails are presently taking up space in my 'professional' inbox during a time which I'm actually trying really hard to be professional: it's quite literally tantamount to a small bug incessantly flying around my face for reasons it clearly does not understand.

not that its particularly any of your fault, of course. at the time of this writing, I'm between jobs, and I've fallen into the trap of refreshing my email (also incessantly) to see if contracts and replies are waiting for me. so when an email that does not fit this criteria finds its way into my inbox, my response is nothing short of murderous rage. that you're peddling what amounts to pollution, in this moment, is almost overlooked. any other day however, it's still just smog.

for you see, dear komal, I too am a web designer / developer. in a nutshell, I am, more or less, what your company is. I'm in the trenches myself, day in and day out, and I really like what I do. on a good day, I get to make the things I build, and adversely build the things I make. I guess I'm okay at it, as I've never really had much difficulty in finding work. that is to say, that I'm certainly not threatened by what your company does. I like to think that the kinds of things that I make are unique and interesting, that I'm something of specialist; and that I'll be in demand, at least until I find something more fun to do.

but there's something that makes me cringe about the industry your company is so representative of. it's certainly not that your indian (although as an American I am unfortunately hardwired to dislike any form of outsourcing); I've not a racist bone in my body. no, it's the entire dumbing and watering down of my profession as a whole that bugs me. the idea of pixel perfect websites, turning photoshop documents into websites and enslaving ones self to a design is not only foreign, but insulting as well.

maybe it's because I'm in the unique position between being both a designer and a developer. and that I'm a bit of a control freak. I've long since given up trying to fight egos larger than mine, but when I'm afforded the provision over a project, its my way or the highway. I like to think of this as a strength: I can alter designs so that they become easier and more logical to build, and can dive into the code of a shrieking aesthetic mess and emerge (more often than not) amongst beauty. but when all responsibility is given up and relegated entirely to the 'client', we are literally enslaved. this is not how design works; it's not how the web works; and its certainly not how good experiences are made.

I'm really sorry that you have to bear the brunt of my frustration, dear komal. I trust that, like the rest of us, you are a dedicated worker trying to make a living. I also understand (more than you'd realize) that by paying as much attention to this as I am, I'm adding fuel to the fire. furthermore, I understand that as long as I bring my A game every single day, I have absolutely nothing to fear from companies like yours. anyone who is scared of a little competition clearly has no spine. and given that we're in two completely separate realms of the market anyways, this is perhaps the most long-winded 'fuck off and leave me alone' letter ever written. but I feel like it needs to be said, for the people out there like myself who straddle the line between creative fields both hard and soft, and who thereby genuinely take pride in what they do: kindly fuck off and leave us alone. 


















