after almost putting my fist through one of my monitors due to firebug's clunky interface and generated "best" "practice" CSS (not to mention firefox's already-bloated demeanor) and safari's seemingly retarded interface (seriously, try selecting DOM elements in rapid succession – after it simply 'forgets' to change to the last element you've selected and you've re-edited the last element instead of what you thought you were editing, you'll genuinely contemplate mass murder), I have found Chromium. it is the basic, core version of google chrome – my most favorite browser – whose cache you can wipe clean as you please, without ever having to loose your goodies stored in chrome. additionally, you can select things at the speed at which a fucking "NEXT GENERATION BROWSER" should select things (what a novel fucking concept!); and the it leaves your markup the hell alone, instead of haphazardly moving things around. AND, all those fancy 3D CSS transforms work like clockwork. it is precisely the way a browser – both for development and for leisure – should work. I wholeheartedly endorse it for both. thanks for saving the day, chromium – not to mention my monitors, and my criminal record! : )

UPDATE. it turns out that the folks behind chromium have (wisely) dropped support for all video codecs that aren't open source. this is really great for the state of the open and free web, but it kinda makes developing pages with video in them a pain in the dick. I still stand by my previous endorsement that chromium is the best browser to do any serious web development in, but make sure that you've got proper fallback coverage – which, you should have done anyways! : )
