{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf340
\cocoascreenfonts1{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh18600\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 there's nothing more obnoxious than slow load times because of needlessly large images. of course, we try to do everything we can, where we can to make sure that everything is trim and light, but sometimes there needs to be little extra finesse applied to things to slim it down even further. \
\
my first step is to use Tjark Derlien's lovely disk inventory x to examine my includes folder. it's a mac program, and its free \'96 and it's also damn handy for looking at what is chewing up your hard disk space when mac yells at you and tells you that you've got all of 17 kb free. there might be a windows counterpart, but I haven't found it. once you've located the offending images, throw them into photoshop, and find that obnoxious 'save for web and devices' menu option. full images, where attention to detail is important goes to JPG at 100 quality; less important images can go to 60 quality; smaller items, such as icons, or images that your design relies on to be transparent go to PNG-24.\
\
it's likely that you've already freed up a lot of space right there, but there's still more you can (and should!) do. I typically size my images down drastically so as to slim them down, but I never make them precisely as large as the container calls for. why? doesn't that chew up processor cycles trying to resize your pictures, and potentially eat up more bandwidth than necessary? the answer is yes, both of those things are true \'96 however, it stands to reason that an image that has a few DPI to spare will look better on your mobile devices, especially those with high resolution displays. it is for this reason that I tend to stick to 150 DPI for images on the web \'96 especially for PNGs that will make it as icons. when I got my first iPad, I took one look at my personal website, and then spent the next month redesigning and rebuilding it so that it would look good up close. nothing screams 'didn't give a fuck' more than grainy icons. of course, if you're using text in images (as I foolishly was) you should be using the @font-face CSS3 property in the first place.\
\
regarding 'full-screen' backgrounds on pages, especially ones that may move around in parallax, I suggest sizing the image down a little so that it's scaled up by the browser, but kicking the JPEG quality up to 100. it turns out that when it comes to rendering images in animation, the thing that'll slow your browser to a crawl is not the size of the file \'96 but rather the number of pixels it has to paint and repaint. it's definitely worth the slight drop in quality to keep things as quick as possible, especially if you have other things going on: it's likely you won't see very much of a drop in image quality in the first place, and your users won't notice. they will, however, notice that your page is jerking around like a stupid kid who just discovered the .animate() jquery function and has overloaded his poor javascript engine with calls (read, me about a year ago. heh.)\
\
for the hardcore out there, there's encoding small images directly into css via a tricky little thing called a data URI and setting it to a background. this works fairly well for things smaller than 32768 bytes (the product of an annoying IE 8 bug), but it's not a silver bullet. while it can drastically reduce the number of HTTP requests you make, it effectively makes the image consume 30% more bandwidth than it would be otherwise. if you've got a site that is mobile only, and has a load of images, this might be the way to go. otherwise, unless you've got something like a fetish for a small number HTTP requests, I'd steer clear.\
\
one more thing. as a web worker, it's likely that you'll be dealing with vast quantities of images. you should therefore be acquainted with a program called namechanger. it can rename and number files by the boatload, and do so very quickly. be sure you know what you're doing however: there's no undo function. if you screw up a batch of files because of an errant character, and you have no backup, you are shit out of luck. there's also a shareware variant called namemangler which has a couple more useful options than its freeware counterpart, but namechanger has worked well for me.\
\
getting those images into your text editor of choice may be a bit arduous however, particularly if you've got a lot of them. I've found the best way to do it is to employ OSX's terminal. cd your way to the directory you've got your images stored in, and punch this in:\
\
ls -l > list.txt\
\
you'll get a nice little text file that has the names of your files which you can manipulate to your hearts' desire. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}