hi. my name is mike, and I'm a guy who really likes to cook; and who not only genuinely believes in the power of the internet to better our lives, but devotes a disproportionate amount of time to that end. this is the story of a once wondrous and promising internet service, gone bad.

once upon a time, someone had the bright idea to use the internet to share recipes. whereas one would have once had to rely on grandma sally's drunken scribbles or martha stewart's shrewd bitchiness, the internet could now provide a literal and figurative cornucopia of delectable recipes at one's fingertips. wondrous as this was, it was admittedly arduous: the interface was crowded; too much emphasis was put onto helpful yet ultimately silly things (like metric to imperial conversions); you never really knew what exactly you were making, relying primarily on a bored housewife's grasp of the english language to sell you a recipe, prompting the use of often outlandish adjectives to describe an otherwise forgettable dish. it was the best and the worst of the internet, all rolled into one: the depth and wealth of the internet, combined with the 1990's terrible grasp of designed usability.

at some point, someone figured out that in order for things to be popular, they often needed to be as simple as possible. someone else took a good look at the then-current state of the online recipe world, and decided that it was a prime candidate to be simplified. thus, a service called gojee was born. with gratuitous use of images; elegant design; a rock solid database that could not only categorize meals with a surgeons precision, but also learn the inputs of its users to further benefit the experience; and a crack team of food lovers combing through blogs both well-known and independent to deliver cutting edge cuisine that could be decided upon not with reason, but with your stomach: the site was genuinely one of those sites that made you wonder aloud, 'why the fuck didn't I think of that?' it was even programmed beautifully. and it was brilliant. someone had seen a glaringly obvious flaw in the system, and stepped up to deliver a product that was literally the best on the market.

then things began to get ugly. 

several years before this, someone else had the good idea to create a public database of deals, discounts, fire sales and clearances going on at the moment. someone else realized that, married with a spot of good writing and design, the discounts themselves could turn into a product, and a thing called groupon was born. it began as a wonderful thing: not only could you get the coolest stuff in town, but you could rub in all of your friends faces how cheaply you had got it because you had an in somewhere. it then began to balloon into other markets, and before too long it was a dumping ground for items that normally wouldn't sell. this is not to say that there isn't cool stuff still there; but once the accountants got a hold of it and saw its initial success, the decision to rape the idea for all it was worth was swift. it's returned to the point where, in order to find something cool, you don't have to dig through myriads of websites to find a good deal; you simply have to dig through the myriad of utter horseshit on groupon. 

but this story isn't about groupon, it's about gojee. 

and gojee, much like groupon, began to grow. 

it was innocuous at first, beginning with desserts: no problem, I like a little something sweet at the end of my meal, and this is the platform to do it on. then, they introduced a section for drinks: also okay, I can't drink scotch every night of the week, and, working among creatives, I need to be at the top my mixology game. this growth was more than welcome, as it was entirely appropriate to its mission. 

but then someone must have guessed that the overwhelming majority of users were woman, as other services, completely unrelated to food, began to be tacked on. and now, the recipes that the site was once so well known for now come before 'dresses', 'heels', 'bags', 'jewelry', 'lingerie', and 'home', whatever the hell that is. now, instead of getting morsels of delicious wonder in my inbox every morning, I get the latest prada bag, or the latest shoes from the bowels of paris, or some clueless young lady in her underwear. which is all fine and well, I suppose, if you're into that kind of thing – and I know, I can manage which emails I receive, but it's not the point. gojee used to be something that truly stood head and shoulders above its competition, and shined brightly as an example of ingenuity, good design and best practices. 

now, it's yet another funnel for things to be sold through. I wouldn't even mind so much if the rest of the 'products' moved elsewhere, to separate site: the original gojee wasn't about selling things, but sharing literal ideas, in the form of a recipe, in the most beautiful way possible. I like that the the internet commerce industry is finally shifting towards beautiful, thoughtful design: it means that I can have more fun with the things that I build. 

but I sure wish it didn't come at the price of good food.

















