{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf340
\cocoascreenfonts1{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 far too much ink has been spilled about something people are calling 'rape culture'. the fact that we even have a name for it is simply disgusting, but there it is. and it's time we put an end to it.\
\
want to do away with rape culture?\
\
chop his cock off.\
\
it's really that simple. a man rapes, he loses his dick. end of discussion.\
\
look, anyone who misuses his unit in such a grievous fashion has clearly demonstrated that he's not worthy of having one \'96 why should he keep it? enough with this labeling and branding and signing and databasing. if someone does it once, he'll do it again. get rid of the offending member, and the problem is forever solved. frankly, allowing someone to retain his life after something \
\
'but mike', I can hear you sneering. 'there are people who will misuse this, and innocent cocks will be chopped.' at first, yes. but once the gravity of penile amputation sinks in, fingers won't be pointed unless there is just cause. and once the finger is pointed, it's lights out for mr. downstairs. period.\
\
don't like it, men? here's an idea: stop putting yourselves in precarious positions. drunk girls? really? try a little harder, asshole. why is consent, conscious or otherwise, even a question here?}