thoughts on mobile websites

at the time of this writing, I am presently designing and developing the mobile portion of my agency's new website. as this is the first fully mobile site that I've had the pleasure of creating, I've come across a number of curiosities, that I will share here.

the first thing that should be noted, is the sheer bliss of developing with best practices in mind. I don't have to worry about this ever being seen internet explorer or any substandard browser, ever; so I can user tools and toys that are bleeding edge. this, of course, brings with it some pitfalls: 

jquery's animate is a wonderful tool, but javascript tends to move a little slower on mobile processors. my personal site, while designed explicitly for the iPad, is a perfect example. jquery performs animations by using an incredibly well-designed bit of code: as plain javascript can only move things to a fixed position without any semblance of animation, jquery executes a series of incredulously small movements in the given time, mathematically, to achieve the illusion of movement. it's dangerously intelligent code, but just as dangerously abused, as without an understanding and appreciation for what goes on behind the scenes, just as is the case with every design-related program, it's impossibly easy to take for granted just how advanced the code is. 

but I digress. as previously mentioned, javascript has a bit of a bottleneck problem when it comes to mobile processors – but css3 transitions, those glorious things erroneously-championed by apple, located much closer to a browsers core than javascript, look flawless. unfortunately for the still-youthful paradigm however, they are damn near impossible to code by hand, requiring what I can only describe as backwards logic. fortunately for the rest of us, a gentleman by the name of Rico Sta. Cruz has written an insanely lightweight (2kb!) jquery plugin that executes all the guesswork of css3 transitions behind the scenes via javascript, leaving only the familiar syntax of jquery to be filled in. this truly is the best of both worlds: you can program your lovely animations, and have them look phenomenal on mobile, too. in a perfect world, this would already be integrated into the jquery core; but until that happens, a clever programmer can toggle it on or off with the increasingly-useful modernizr.

something else that should be noted is working with differently sized screens. while the iPhone is the undisputed champion here in switzerland, the android platform still has a comfortable (and growing!) portion of the market, bringing along with it devices with screens that stray from the 320x417 space of real estate. it would be all too easy to design a site solely for such a size: but as android comprises a healthly 25% of the market share (up 10% from only a year ago)*, we must account for it. in doing so, I have become increasingly comfortable with the idea of positioning things with percentages of the screen. admittedly, it's a dangerous way of thinking, as older browsers simple won't read it, leading me to conclude it useless in the course of regular web development – however, as we're now developing at the aforementioned bleeding edge, we can bend the rules just a little bit. creating a div with a width of 300% seems completely contrary to anything I've learned thus far: but by damn, it works.

of course, this is something that cannot be used all the time, particularly when using the exceptionally clever css3 transition jquery plugin. when I've previously made things animate in a line, perhaps mimicking the iPhone swipe effect, I've found that the most linear way of going about it is to put everything in a giant div, and move the div accordingly: the effect is achieved, and the coding is kept to a minimum. however, when we affect such an idea to mobile safari with jquery transit, we quickly (and maddeningly) find that touch events simply no longer work on successive screens. they just don't. this is because of an annoying bug in safari – not in chromium, despite them both being webkit-based – that I suspect is coupled primarily with css3 transitions: I am led to believe that transform:translate(-200%, 0%); is interpreted by safari far differently than left:-200%, and thereby does not permit click events to occur on anything outside of the initial 100% bounds – despite the content clearly being there. this is easy enough to remedy, despite going against one of my core tenements of how I design and build for the web**: removing the encompassing div, and moving the individual components one by one allows for successive clicks to be successfully registered. I wish I would have fucking known about this about 24 hours ago.

*browser statistics courtesy of gs.statcounter.com
**I believe that, despite adding a potentially unnecessary layer, adding a master div to the body for all content to exist in makes the entire process of rapid development a whole lot easier. that way, if you need something to exist outside of the 'document flow', it's as simple as putting it outside of the aforementioned master div. have you ever tried moving something around outside of the body? it's possible, but also obnoxious. therefore, <div class="master"></div> is a part of my boilerplate code.